                       VolPack version 1.0beta3
                       ------------------------

Phil Lacroute
volpack@graphics.stanford.edu
16 December 1994

1. Introduction
---------------

VolPack is a portable library of fast volume rendering algorithms
that produce high-quality images.

2. Installation
---------------

To build the library, do the following:

  A. Type "./configure" in this directory.  This will run a shell
     script that determines the features of your operating system
     and then automatically chooses compiler flags and configuration
     constants for VolPack.

     Configure takes a number of options, but only the commonly-used
     ones are described here.  You can specify the top-level
     installation directory with the "--prefix=<directory>"
     option, and the top-level installation directory for
     architecture-dependent binaries with "--exec_prefix=<directory>".
     Both options default to /usr/local.

     If you want, you can look at the Makefile configure builds and
     override some of the options.

  B. Type "make".  This creates a library archive call "libvolpack.a".

  C. To compile the example programs type "make examples", or move
     to the examples directory and type "make".

  D. Type "make install" to install the library, include files, and
     manual entries.

  E. Look at the User's Guide in the "doc" directory for a tutorial
     introduction, and look at the examples programs in the "examples"
     directory (see examples/README).

If you have a version of "m4" that does not understand the -D option
then the compilation will fail (usually "make" will appear to hang
after the first call to m4).  Some systems have two versions of m4;
you can choose the correct one by editting the "M4" macro in
Makefile.in or by setting the M4 environment variable to the correct
path before running configure.  You can also install GNU m4.

If your optimizer has trouble or takes a long time on some of the
files you may want to use a lower optimization level for them.  All of the
files with names like vp_comp*.c are special-case versions of the
rendering routine and you may choose to optimize only the ones you
plan to use frequently.

An important note for HP-UX users:
The math library rint() function is broken in HP-UX 9.01 (and maybe
other releases), causing the VolPack test programs to generate blank
images.  This is fixed by HP patch "PHSS_3597", which HP-UX users can
get from HP support.

3. Documentation
----------------

The doc directory contains a user's guide to VolPack in HTML format
(volpack.html) which you can read using Mosaic or any other Web
browser.  A PostScript version is also available.

The man directory contains manual pages for each routine in the
library.

4. Support
----------

If you have problems, bug reports or bug fixes, please send mail to:

    volpack@graphics.stanford.edu

The author makes no commitment to fix bugs or provide support.
However, future releases with fixes and enhancements are planned.
If you like the library then drop us a note describing what you use it
for!

If you decide to use the software then please add yourself to our
mailing list so we can tell you about bug fixes and new versions of
the software.  Just send a message to

    majordomo@lists.stanford.edu

with the message body:

    subscribe volpack-announce

5. Data Sets and Other Goodies
------------------------------

One sample data set is provided in the examples directory.  Some
larger data sets and a more complete demonstration application,
vprender, are available from the Stanford Computer Graphics
Laboratory's ftp site:
    graphics.stanford.edu:pub/volpack
or
    http://www-graphics.stanford.edu/

6. Changes
----------

Release 1.0beta3 includes the following additions to release 1.0beta2:

    - a new shader for rendering shadows (see vpSetShadowLookupShader)
    - filtering routines for resampling volumes to different resolutions
    - the capability to produce images with different pixel formats,
      including formats with alpha channels
    - several important bug fixes, including a problem with depth
      cueing that caused "flashing" artifacts in rotation sequences
    - upgraded configuration script to autoconf 2.0 for even easier
      installation

See the "changes" file for a complete list.  There are minor
incompatible changes to the functions vpSetImage and vpGetImage.

7. Copyright
------------

VolPack is covered by the following copyright notice:

    Copyright (c) 1994 The Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford
    Junior University.  All rights reserved.
  
    Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
    documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
    that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
    all copies of this software and that you do not sell the software.
    Commercial licensing is available by contacting the author.
   
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
    EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
    WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

    This version of the VolPack library is a modified version of the
    original available from Stanford University.  Modifications were
    made by the Center for Computational Sciences and Engineering,
    Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.  Modifications to VolPack
    (c) 2000 The Regents of the University of California (through
    E.O. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory), subject to approval by
    the U.S. Department of Energy.  Your use of this software is under
    license from Stanford University with respect to the underlying
    original VolPack code (see copyright notice and permission above)
    and The Regents of the University of California with respect to
    modifications thereto (see AmrVis license.txt file for applicable
    license terms).  Contact Berkeley Lab's Center for Computational
    Sciences and Engineering at webmaster@mothra.lbl.gov or Berkeley
    Lab's Technology Transfer Department at TTD@lbl.gov for questions
    or to receive more information.
 

8. Credits
----------

VolPack was written by Phil Lacroute at the Computer Graphics
Laboratory, Stanford University.  The algorithms are based on Phil's
Ph.D. thesis research and are described in the following paper:
Philippe Lacroute and Marc Levoy, Fast Volume Rendering Using a
Shear-Warp Factorization of the Viewing Transformation, Proc. SIGGRAPH
'94 (Orlando, Florida, July 24-29, 1994).  In Computer Graphics
Proceedings, Annual Conference Series, 1994, ACM SIGGRAPH, pp. 451-458.

If you publish a rendering made using VolPack and you would like to
make an attribution, the following form is suggested:

    Image generated using the Stanford VolPack volume renderer.

An appropriate longer attribution could omit the word Stanford but would
include a citation of the SIGGRAPH '94 paper:

    Image generated using the VolPack volume renderer [#].

    [#]  Philippe Lacroute and Marc Levoy, Fast Volume Rendering Using a
    Shear-Warp Factorization of the Viewing Transformation, Proc. SIGGRAPH
    '94 (Orlando, Florida, July 24-29, 1994).  In Computer Graphics
    Proceedings, Annual Conference Series, 1994, ACM SIGGRAPH, pp. 451-458.
